 Hello, I'm Taylor and welcome to crash course Linguistics language is everywhere in old books and new words in a long conversation with a friend and a short chat with a stranger the endless dreams on our social media feeds and the snippets on the back of a cereal box language spans our whole lives from one of the first things that we encounter is babies to our famous last words languages what I'm doing right now, we can observe and study how language works like any other natural phenomenon and that's Linguistics linguists try to understand the big picture. How does language work in?
  Neural what's going on in our minds and our societies that allows every group of humans to have language spoken or signed and why do each of us use language slightly differently.
  Linguistics is the study of language, but we're already using language right now. So let's back up a second. What do we mean by studying language? Let's go to the thought bubble. Let's pretend I'm on a trip to another country. The sun is shining and I'm enjoying some time in a place where I don't know anyone and I don't speak the language then I meet another person walking along and while we're both admiring the flowers a rabbit hops interview the person points with the hopping rabbit and says gavagai, so I think that must be the word in this person's language for rabbit.
  If I reply with rabbit, we could both learn something but maybe that's not exactly what the other person meant does gavagai mean rabbit. Maybe it just means fuzzy animal or hopping or just hey look or even as the linguistic philosopher WV equine proposed low and UND attached Rabbit part, or maybe this particular rabbit's name is Gaga I could ask but I don't speak the language yet and figuring out how to ask. These complex ideas requires us to know some more basic concrete words like rabbit, which
  Which is what we're trying to figure out in the first place. We need to get out of this week. Let's start by making some tentative assumptions, but we'll stay prepared for some of them to be wrong. I'll smile point at the hopping bunny and say rabbit, at least I'm indicating a desire to communicate even though neither of us to be sure exactly what the other person is trying to say as I walk with my new friend pointing at animals and Sharon words. Both of us can test and refine our initial linguistic hypotheses. Maybe we encounter some baby rabbits, and I learned that they're not called gavagai so I can update my men.
  Entry for gavagai to fully grown rabbit question mark maybe I'll realize something about English that I hadn't noticed before when I try to explain it like the subtle difference between rabbit and Bunny. Thanks thought bubble as we just saw language is a unique area to study because we need to use it to study it on the one hand. This means that we can do a lot of linguistics without needing fancy equipment because language is right there in our brains and in the people around us on the other hand. This also means that we need to be really precise about cultivating metal.
  Linguistic awareness. We need to test an examine our assumptions about how language Works to do. This linguists have identified a few key features that distinguish a language from other ways of communicating first language exists at two levels. There's the level of the form like sounds or handshapes which don't have meaning in themselves. Then there's the level of combinations of forms that create meaning so when it comes to speech the sounds but uh, uh hmmm and E don't mean anything individually, but can be combined to make bunny like our new
  And gavagai or the same sounds can be arranged to make nubby because it's the combination that makes the meaning not the individual sounds this idea that words are made up of two levels of structure is known as The Duality of patterning. Also when we look at other languages, we can see that there's no reason why a rabbit has to be called bunny. It could be called Conejo kolinsky gavagai or there's no inherent connection between the word Bunny and this furry thing. It refers to all these other sequences of sounds and hand shapes.
  Also, refer to this animal the words we use are signs that reference things in the world like how a street sign labels which street you're on but usually there's no specific reason why a particular word or set of smaller units of sound or shapes are used so we can say that the choice is arbitrary. This feature of language is known as the arbitrariness of the sign and distinguishes a language from other kinds of communication now, it's a bit confusing because sign means two things in linguistics first assign is anything that conveys a meaning Beyond itself. So the word rain,
  The smell of moisture in the air can both be signs of rain. The word rain is an arbitrary sign since its unconnected to the whether a human could have said the word rain and pointed at a rock or a tree or gavagai and the sign could have stuck but instead it's a sign that we arbitrarily but collectively decided to use for this kind of weather. But the smell of moisture is a non-arbitrary sign since it's super connected to the experience of water droplets falling from the sky second. We use sign in a signed language here. We mean a language which is produced using the hands.
  Arms and face compared to a spoken language which is produced using the tongue lips and throat. So the signs that make up sign languages are a subset of the first kind of signs as our spoken words the kind of signs that convey a meaning Beyond themselves speaking of sign languages. It might be tempting to assume that sign languages are less arbitrary because in words like rabbit in ASL the hand shape looks a little bit like a rabbit's ear but there are still many arbitrary reasons the signal means rabbit and not something else for example the Australian
  In Sign Language or also and sign for rabbit looks very different spoken languages can have less arbitrary seeming patterns to in Swahili chafee amines sneeze both Java and sneeze have sounds that rush out of your throat like the friction of a sneeze in contrast boyo means burp and both of these words have the burp of a serious belch who felt that also can has that feeling still arbitrary though. Anyway, once we start building up meaning from smaller units, there are two more features that make language different from
  just any old communication system one is that we can use language to talk about things that happened in the past will happen in the future or may happen. In other worlds being able to talk about things that aren't right here right now is known as displacement. Another is that we can use language to talk about language. Otherwise, it would make doing Linguistics hard these videos impossible. The ability to get meta about language is the feature of reflexivity when we examine other kinds of communication with these for design features in mind.
  We can see how they stack up against language. These do a complicated waggle dance to show their fellow bees where to find nectar, but they can't do it to tell a story about some great flowers they found last week or hope to find tomorrow. They're waggle dance has can't manage the full range of the displacement feature a parent may be able to mimic the sound of many words in a language but it doesn't understand the meaning of those sounds parrots don't manage duality of patterning a dog wagging its tail always means that it's happy regardless of what culture the dog lives in.
  And it's not an arbitrary sign animals can communicate but none of the ways that animals communicate have all the design features of human language Beyond animals. We know emojis aren't going to become their own language until we can use emojis to write a story about emojis emojis don't have the feature of reflexivity because of the unique features of human languages the number of words and sentences we can make out of our bodies is infinite, even though the human body that we use to make them is limited with two hands two arms and 10 fingers. There's only
  So many distinct signs we can make and with the tongues lips teeth and throat. There's only so many sounds with this small set of shared ingredients humans have created over 7,000 identified languages and so many varieties within them. For example, you may know someone who speaks your language but has a different word for something than you do or pronounces the same word differently than you do like that thing that you might call a water fountain. I call it a bubbler linguists are interested in all the different varieties of languages that people speak in sign.
  Not just the standardized version that gets taught in schools. That's because all language varieties tell us interesting things about how people use language linguists study the variations within languages as well as language itself. They approach the study of language by looking at the different levels of structure that all languages have in common. We'll tackle each one of these in more depth throughout crash course Linguistics. But today let's start with the smallest chunks first and move through the larger and larger units first. There's the study of individual sounds in spoken languages or
  And shapes and sign languages which is called phonetics languages combine. These individual sounds are hand shapes into words according to specific patterns and the study of that is called phonology next. They can study how longer words can often be broken down into an internal structure an area called morphology the study of how words grouped together to make sentences is syntax, and we can study and talk about the meaning of words and sentences or semantics and the meaning and a larger social context or pragmatics. There are also ways we can
  as the structure of these different levels of language or the meaning that they create we can look at the language choices people make and how this relates to society history or the brain when goes find language to study in many different ways, like observing people asking them questions or doing experiments with them linguist can work with existing text recordings video or historical documents to and because we each know at least one language, we can sometimes even figure certain things out by Consulting the language knowledge in our own heads a process called.
  Introspection regardless of what level of linguistic structure or perspective we focus on linguists and we here at crash course are interested in language as it's actually used. We're not talking about correct language, which is a pretty murky concept. Anyway after all if we were studying Birdsong, we wouldn't go around telling sparrows that they're not singing right because they don't sound like parrots instead. We'd want to analyze all birds or all language varieties regardless of where they stand in the pecking order linguistics.
  Is relevant to anyone who uses language but it's especially relevant to certain people and industries. It's directly relevant to speech pathologists and people building speech recognition tools like the voice assistant on your phone and knowledge of linguistics can also help people who teach grammar or languages. It's also useful for lawyers writers editors poets journalists and people who work in jobs that require thoughtful understanding of language as a tool and finally understanding Linguistics and how language works is valuable for anyone who wants to better understand humans and the world we live in I
  Linguistics as part of my major in college along with writing in Spanish Linguistics has made me more aware of how important languages so I'm a big fan and I'm excited to learn more with you for the next 15 videos here in Crash Course. Linguistics will be exploring language at all of these different levels together and building our understanding of language and each other. So when you add a stranger watch a rabbit hop across the field together your two languages might not have a direct translation for what you want to say about that experience, but we can learn to understand the similarities and differences.
  Frances between languages and build communication thanks to the tools of linguistics. Next time we'll be asking what is a word and what are words made up see you then. Thanks for watching this episode of crash course in ballistics. If you want to help keep all crash course free for everybody forever. You can join our community on patreon.
